>> Hello.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I want to welcome you
to "Living In Balance."
Our program today is called
The Enlightened Dowser.
We're going to be talking about
dowsing, that ancient blend
of art and science.
But we're going to
be looking at it
from a spiritual perspective.
So come join us.
[THEME MUSIC]
I took the liberty of calling
Joey Korn the Enlightened
Dancer.
He said he's aspiring to
that, but he's not real sure
that he can claim that yet.
But I'd like to welcome you.
>> Thank you, thank you.
>> You have written
a book about it.
And this has been
a book that you
have revised maybe nine times.
And it's called "Dowsing--
A Path to Enlightenment."
And you said that
it has really helped
you move along your own
personal spiritual path.
>> Definitely.
I saw-- I learned
to dance when I--
well, in 1986.
And I immediately saw
it as a spiritual tool.
And it has taken me--
it's made me ever more
soundly on my path,
helped me step ever more soundly
on my path to enlightenment.
>> Well, not everyone
knows what dowsing.
Now, vaguely they'll say, well,
isn't that how you find water?
>> That's how it started.
>> OK, but--
>> With a forked stick
from a tree, a branch.
And now, there are
many different kinds
of dowsing tools.
But basically, dowsing
is a process to tune
into the subtle energies that
are everywhere around us.
And it can help us realize that
we are electrical beings living
in an electrical
universe, or beings
of light living
in a sea of light.
>> And it's as if it's
back in again to dowse.
And people do it to answer
questions in their life
and also to find what
might be negative energies
or positive energies.
So for a while,
though, only water
was what it was used
for, to find the water.
>> That's how it
started, finding water.
But once you realize
that you're not
finding the physical water,
the substance of the water,
you're finding the
energy of the water,
then you can take
the leap and realize
that you can tune into
anything that you can think of.
So somehow, your mind knows the
energy frequency of the things
that-- of just about
anything you're looking for.
And you hold that
intent in your mind,
and then you get
dowsing reactions
to whatever you're looking for.
>> And you think of the dowsing
rods as being an extension
of who you are, of you.
>> Right.
>> So they're just more open
to or responsive to energies?
>> They help you tune in to
everything-- it's like a radio,
tuning a radio.
And you tune into
certain frequencies
that you hold in your intent.
And a lot of people
think that the rods are
the dowser or the
pendulum are the dowsing--
are the dowsers.
But you are the dowser.
The energies around
us and around you
affect you every single
moment of your life,
and the energies within you.
And dowsing can help you
tune into those energies
and find them.
>> And you actually have put the
energies in three categories--
>> Three broad categories.
>> --is how you like
to look at them.
Very broad, OK.
And the energies are
beneficial and clear
is how you look at them.
>> Right.
>> And those are--
in all of our
environment, we would
find some beneficial energy.
>> Yeah.
If you have a fairly
happy, healthy life,
your environment
and your being will
be full of beneficial energies.
>> Now, there's
also detrimental.
>> These are energies
that weaken you.
The beneficial energies
strengthen you.
I call it clear
because I believe
these energies are like
conductors of the life force.
And clear lets the light
pass through freely.
Detrimental would
be-- they weaken you.
And many dowsers believe
over long periods of time
they can make you sick,
detrimental energies.
And most dowsers
think that they're
natural forces of the Earth,
like underground streams.
The energy of an
underground stream
can carry a detrimental
energy to it that weakens you.
>> And you believe then
that blocks the energy.
So you call that then opaque.
And so it's like the
energy can't get through.
And then, the third type of
energy is basically neutral.
>> Neutral, right.
>> So a little cloudy.
>> Yeah.
They don't-- these energies,
they don't affect us one way
or another.
What makes my work different
from most dowsers who even work
with these energies
is that I realize
that we affect these energies
as much as they affect us.
In fact, I believe
that each of us
creates our own unique
energy environment
in our homes and our
offices and our living
spaces with our thoughts,
our emotions, our actions,
our fears, our anxieties.
And the energies-- the subtle
energies, which are invisible
beams of light and
waves of light,
these energies are a reflection
of your health and well-being
or lack thereof.
>> Now, how do you
relate that to our aura,
to what is talked about is our
own personal energy field that
is a certain distance out from
us and that people can read
and that some people see and
that has also light and dark
spots and so forth?
>> You can dowse the aura.
And I like to more
dowse the auric field.
And when you dowse
for the energy
field or the auric field, and
you do enough of the dowsing,
you'll find that
it make-- you are
a vortex, that your energy
spirals out from you
and then back to
you all the time.
You're a living vortex,
and that can be--
>> So I'm always sending out
energy and it's always coming
back to me, and we're
always exchanging energy.
>> Right.
All the time.
>> You and I, for
example, are now.
>> Right now, we're
exchanging energy,
not just thoughts and ideas
and words, but energy.
>> Because you're in my
space and I'm in your space.
It's just like that.
You have the dowsing rods.
And there are all kinds
of different ones.
Do you want to show us those?
>> Yes.
>> These are some
of your favorites.
>> These are.
>> And you gave me--
>> I like them.
These are called L rods,
mainly because they're
shaped like an L. And
these have the added effect
of having antennas
attached to them.
And it reminds you that you're
tuning into frequencies,
to energy frequencies.
And this is one
dowsing reaction.
That's what I use the
most, pointing to--
opening to point in
opposite directions.
This would be like
a search position.
And this would be
another dowsing reaction.
And some people use real rods
for yes and no questions.
But most people use
the pendulum for that.
>> For the dowsing.
Now, if we look
at these closely,
the way that you
do not control them
is because they slip into this.
And so if we take
a look at that,
it's like you're not moving
it because you're holding down
here.
So it's actually on free play.
>> Yeah.
But I-- dowsers in recent
years have realized
that there are actually
minuscule movements
within your body that
causes the dowsing reaction.
So to a certain
extent, what you're
doing with dowsing is
you're training your body
to get these--
some dowsers would
take exception to this,
but you're training your body to
make these minuscule movements
as a result of the energies that
are around you and the energies
that you're looking for.
>> So that's OK that you're
contributing to the movement.
And you don't have
a problem with that.
>> I don't have a
problem with that at all.
What you're doing--
your body is--
again, you're the dowser.
This simply accentuates what's
going on within your body,
within your energy.
And then you can feel it.
There's no doubt-- once
you do a little dowsing,
there's no doubt that
this is something
that's really happening.
>> Now, I asked you to dowse
the set because I felt that,
because we spend so much time
here and so many positive
things are said and so many
wonderful people sit in that
chair--
>> Right.
And that chair.
>> Thank you.
>> One wonderful person.
>> And so with that, there
should be energy here that you
could feel--
>> Absolutely.
>> --that you could dowse.
And what would you--
if you were to do
that, what would we
find out about that energy?
>> Well, what I've already found
is that there are several what
I call beams of light, invisible
beams of light suspended
in time and space.
And there are several that
intersect where this chair is,
where somebody would--
where you sit--
and then where I--
where your guest sits--
your guests sit.
And these beams of light,
where they intersect--
they're suspended
in time and space,
and where they
intersect, they create
a little vortex, what you
might call a mini power spot.
>> Yes, OK.
So a little power
spot is created.
But also, because we have all
of the technical things out here
as far as our cameras and all
of the different machinery
and things, we are in a very
powerful electromagnetic field.
>> Electromagnetic, right.
>> Now, you feel that those can
be negative and we can switch
those to positive.
>> Let's call them
weakening or detrimental.
>> OK.
But also, there
are bands of them.
>> Yeah.
A lot of people look
at EMF, and they only
think of EMF, the
electromagnetic fields coming
from wires and equipment and
appliances, microwave ovens,
televisions, computer
screens, as being
detrimental or bad for you.
And I find-- and this is again
what makes my work different--
I find that we can simply
change these energies,
transmute them to be beneficial.
I think all these energies, the
energies of underground streams
and other natural forces of the
Earth, the energies of EMF that
come from appliances, these
beams of light suspended
in time and space,
they can either
carry an energy
that's detrimental
to us, neutral to us, or--
>> Beneficial.
>> --beneficial to us.
If you find energies that
are detrimental to us, that
weaken us, a simple,
properly stated,
sincere prayer will change it
immediately to be beneficial--
>> So that's the--
>> --even EMF
>> --enlightened dowser.
That's that aspect there,
because what you're saying
is we can change that.
And it is the power of prayer--
>> Power of prayer.
>> --that can do that.
And it is just that simple.
>> Just that easy.
A lot of dowsers who
work with these energies
do various things when they
find detrimental energies,
like an underground
stream that might
course deep under the ground
but right under your bed.
A lot of dowsers think
that that's not good.
And they'll do things
like hammering rods
into the ground called
Earth acupuncture.
>> Oh, I love that,
>> And it actually will block
the energies or bounce them
off.
And you can find all
that with dowsing.
Well, I find that we want
these energies in our living
environment.
We just want them
to be beneficial.
And again, a prayer will do it.
>> So the prayer--
>> But properly stated.
>> --properly stated, has
intention of changing what
would be detrimental
to beneficial.
And you can do that.
>> And it's not just--
what I've found with my--
first of all, I consider
dowsing a sacred process.
And I consider dowsing
tools to be sacred tools.
And you can actually
not only change things
from detrimental to
beneficial, but you
can bring in new
beneficial energies
and create a unique
energy configuration
to bring whatever you really
are wanting to bring in,
what you desire and what you
want to bring into your life.
You can call that
in with prayer.
And I find it with
sincere prayer,
energies change within
you and around you,
and you can see
that with dowsing.
You can experience it.
>> Well, we're going to go into
a whole other concept of how
you've developed this, and it's
called two lights of the soul.
Fascinating information.
But I think we should
take a break first.
And when we do, we'll
come back, and we'll
be talking more about dowsing
and also more about Joey.
I think people should get to
know you as an author too.
So if you will stay
tuned, we will be back
with the enlightened dowser.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And if you are just joining
us, I am Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I am interviewing
the enlightened dowser.
Joey Korn, welcome again.
And you have authored the
book, Again "Dowsing--
A Path to Enlightenment."
And as I said, you
keep revising it.
But you also are
well-known for another book
that you have written, and
that is called "Abe's Story."
And it's a Holocaust
memoir that you
rewrote your father's story.
>> Right.
My dad died when I was 19.
He spent his entire--
well, the entire World War II,
from the beginning of the War
till the end, in Nazi prisons,
ghettos, and concentration
camps.
And he wrote-- he began writing
his memoirs 25 years later.
He died when I was
19, and he left
a rough draft, which
I finally turned
into a publishable manuscript.
And it was originally
published in 1995.
>> So it's a real work of love.
>> And it's just such an
inspiring, wonderful story.
>> And you said that your path
has taken you on this journey.
You've included dowsing
now, but you've always
been a spiritual person
on a spiritual path
and aware of that
for many years.
>> Basically, since I was 21.
And I'm 46.
47.
>> So as a grownup.
As almost a grownup.
>> All my adult life, right.
>> So one of the things that
we had promised we'd talk about
were the two lights of the soul.
And you said that
you create a vortex.
Each person has power
center because we
have these two lights that
are crossing in our being.
Is that what you've found?
>> What I started finding--
I'm always asking why?
Why?
And I started
finding intersections
of two invisible lights at
places like chairs and desks,
and many intersecting
lights around beds,
and in a very unique pattern.
And I was wondering-- in
front of refrigerators.
In front of the stove.
In front of the sink.
Places that-- high-use areas.
Places that you use.
And I wondered, why is that?
Why do these energies come
to these high-use areas?
>> Well, you came over
to our home yesterday.
And where my husband sits,
on the sofa where I would be,
for example, that's
where you found these--
>> Intersecting lights.
>> --intersecting lights,
which create this power vortex,
this power center, because
that's where people spend
their time and their energy.
So the vortexes are created,
or vortices as they call them.
>> That's exactly right.
But what I've realized
is that we each have
two beams of light, invisible
light, that intersect us
wherever we go.
They go with us.
And these two beams of
light I call the two lights
of the soul.
I believe that they anchor
the soul to the body
and that they are how we relate
to everything else, everyone
else, and especially
the energies around us.
>> Now, from biblical times, we
have some beautiful paintings.
And Christ is always shown
with the intersecting lights.
>> Let's say often.
>> Often.
>> In a lot of the
Catholic icons.
What I realized-- I'd been
teaching in my workshops
and lectures about
the two lights
of the soul for about
a year that each of us
has in our lives.
And then I realized,
one day I just
noticed it on a Catholic icon.
That's the two lights of
the soul, the cross that's
at Jesus's head.
And I thought it must
be the two lights,
it must be symbolic of the two
lights, not the physical cross.
>> Conductors of the life force.
>> And actually, when
I looked into it,
in Catholicism that's
called the nimbus.
And it does not represent
the physical cross.
It represents what's
called the light of God.
And the little halo
effect around his head
is called the crown of light.
And so it was obvious to me
that it was representing--
at least the two
lights at his head
are representing
light, not the cross.
>> And also, we had the
picture of Moses and Elijah,
and they too had that,
the intersecting--
>> Right.
These come from
stained glass windows
at the Sacred Heart, what
used to be a church, now
a cultural center in Augusta.
And that that one
with Moses and Elijah
is from a famous painting
called "The Transfiguration."
And it shows Moses
with literally two
beams of light
intersecting at his head.
>> And with man, you feel
that we also have those too,
that there is the
intersecting light--
>> With human being--
>> --with human beings.
>> Yeah, with all of us.
Now, Moses's and
Jesus's are always
intersecting at the
third eye, representing
cosmic consciousness.
And I find that we
typically represent--
they're intersecting us
typically from the lower
abdomen to the neck.
>> And when you did
me, for example,
it was at the heart center.
>> At your heart.
>> Just about there.
>> Your heart center.
Unconditional love.
>> Now these-- that's it.
These patterns
also-- and we're only
going to touch upon this
because this is something
that, in your study
of the Kabbalah,
which is Jewish mysticism,
you have found that there are
patterns of light that
are created that are not
unlike the patterns of light
the Kabbalah or the tree of life
also depict.
>> Well, what I'm
finding is that my work--
I'm Jewish.
And I've gone my whole
adult life seemingly
studying other traditions.
And I find that it all comes
right back to my Jewish roots
and that what I'm
working with now--
what I do is I help
people understand
their unlimited potential as
spiritual beings of light.
And the Kabbalah
is all about light.
And what I'm what I'm
learning-- and Kabbalah
is at the core of Jewish
mysticism, in case people
haven't heard of what the
Kabbalah is and its teachings.
And it's supposed to
be the spiritual Torah,
the spiritual Old Testament
that was handed down orally.
And my word just
fits beautifully
in with Kabbalistic teachings.
>> Isn't that fascinating, when
you've looked at everything
and then you've come back?
>> And I feel like I've--
I feel that I've made
discoveries that really
tie directly to Kabbalah.
>> Now, you use the pendulum,
and the pendulum you said also
dowses for energies.
>> Well, we dowse.
This is just a different
tool for tuning
into the same energies
in different ways.
>> OK.
Do you want to show us yours?
>> Sure.
>> And the concept here of the
pendulum as a dowsing tool.
>> Well, some people use the
pendulum for yes or no answers.
And they might-- this
might represent a yes,
and this might represent a no.
And a lot of people
consider that the pendulum
is giving them the answers.
But again, it's your own
being that does that.
>> OK.
So we're not consciously
controlling it,
but what you think we
are controlling in--
>> Yes, in a way.
What you're doing is tuning in
more to your intuitive side,
tuning in more to your
higher self, hopefully.
And so that's where
your intent should be.
But I use a pendulum
in a different way.
I use a pendulum
in my prayer work.
As I said, I find
that when we pray,
energies change around us.
So I use that
consciously in my prayer.
I call for energies to change
within me and around me
or within others and
around them to bring
whatever I want into my life.
>> So it is a healing tool.
And this is all--
>> It can be.
>> --that your work
comes to, then,
is that you recognize
those energies,
and you can use it for
healing with using prayer.
>> Yeah.
Actually, it's the prayer that
brings the healing, I think,
and the intent.
And I just use this, the
pendulum, as a signal.
It keeps me on task.
It helps me tune
into the energies.
And I use it as a signal
that tells me, OK,
the work that you've called
for is complete for now.
>> Now, you said that
you with bless our--
you would say a prayer for
this set, for the show--
>> Yes.
>> --and so forth.
And this is something that you
do, like you did in our home
yesterday.
And you would do
that for us now?
>> Yes.
What I do, all my prayers begin
the same and they end the same.
And in the middle,
I stick my intent
of what I want to
bring into my life.
And it sort of transforms
personal prayer
from a pleading to a
beckoning for energies
to come in to be
conducive to what
you want to bring into your
life, is the way I do it.
So I would start--
I'm actually swinging this.
>> Intentionally,
and you know it.
>> But when it goes to
the left and to the right,
that's a tendency that
I'm not controlling.
And I just start with,
if it be thy will,
may the powers of
nature converge
to charge this area
with the life force,
to create a unique
energy configuration,
to bring healing and balance
to all who come here,
and to help Georgia
in her efforts,
and to draw to her the right
guests at the right time
to help the viewing
audience draw ever closer
to their highest potential
as spiritual beings,
ever closer to
the universal one,
and to bring healing and
balance into their lives for now
and into the future, for
as long as is appropriate.
Amen.
To me, the work is already done.
That was my signal.
When it returned to what
I call my search position
and stayed there, that
told me that the work that
I was calling for, the energy
changes that I was calling for,
were already complete before
I even finished the prayer.
It's the intent that matters.
And it takes your--
with words, it takes a
little longer sometimes.
So when it stayed in
my search position,
that's my signal
that we're done.
And the energy really
did change just then.
>> So you have blessed us
and set an intention for all
of our future shows to serve our
audience well, and all of is.
>> And to draw the
right people to you--
>> Exactly.
>> --that might
want to interview,
and to also bless
your audience as well.
>> Yeah.
I think that's wonderful.
I think you are serving the
planet well as a dowser.
And it's a very interesting
approach that you have taken.
And as you said,
this is your gift now
that you feel that you're
going to be sharing.
>> Yeah, I do.
I feel it's a gift
that was given to me.
I've made many
discoveries in my work
as a dowser that are going on.
But I just feel like it's
discoveries about life that
goes on behind
the scenes in life
all the time, whether
we know it or not.
And dowsing can help
us tune into that.
And when we realize that
these energies are around us
and we're changing them
all the time, including
bringing in
detrimentals, then we
can take control of
that process and make
energies beneficial to us.
>> Wonderful.
Thank you, Joey.
>> Thank you.
>> And if you would like to be
in touch with Joey and perhaps
get one of his books-- and also
we always love to hear from
you.
And then some parting thoughts.
Stay tuned.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I love to bring different
techniques and ideas to you
so that you can look at what
might work for you, what
could make a difference in your
life, another step on your path
too.
And it might be dowsing.
So to live in balance in mind,
body, and spirit, perhaps
dowsing could assist you.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]